These days, stress and change can dominate our busy lives.
We may face challenging situations at work,
at home, or both.
Navigating those challenges in a positive and productive way
takes resilience,
learning how to thrive in difficult circumstances.
Luckily, resilience is a skill anyone can build.
To define it precisely,
resilience is how well we bounce back from adverse events
or conditions.
Resilience isn't a trait you have or don't have,
think of it more on a scale from a little resilience
to very resilient.
Anyone can build and improve resilience with practice.
Let's look at five key characteristics
of resilient people,
sometimes called, the five pillars of resilience.
Once you understand these five pillars,
you can work to reinforce them,
which will build up your resilience.
The first pillar is self-awareness.
This is the ability to understand your strengths,
weaknesses, and behaviors.
Realistic self-assessment is the first step
towards resilience.
The second pillar is your outlook.
Resilient people frame challenges as opportunities
for growth and learning.
For example, a resilient person
who's working on self-awareness
might recognize their short temper as a weakness,
and identify stress as a trigger.
They can then choose a more positive response
and a stressful situation.
They could reframe their reaction by telling themselves,
this stressful situation is an opportunity
for me to practice regulating my emotions,
I should take five deep breaths before I speak.
The third pillar is support.
A network of encouraging, caring, and trustworthy people
can help us feel valued and connected
when the going gets tough.
A sense of purpose is the fourth pillar.
Tackling challenges and service of our values or mission
helps us find the inner strength to keep going.
The final pillar is self-care.
It's easy to neglect self-care when we're struggling,
but nurturing our mental and physical health
gives us the energy reserves we need
to bounce back from stressful situations.
Stress is part of life,
but high stress can harm or burn out those experiencing it.
Self-awareness, outlook, support,
a sense of purpose, and self-care
are all characteristics that you can improve
to help you be resilient in the face of stress.
People who strive for resilience
have built up the skills needed to bounce back
and even thrive in challenging situations.
The next time you're experiencing adversity,
work to strengthen these five pillars of resilience.
Being more resilient will help you
through difficult situations today
and far into the future.